Summary of Benefits and Coverage: What this Plan Covers & What You Pay for Covered Services Coverage Period: 01/01/2024-12/31/2024
Oregon Health Plan Coverage for: Individual and Family | Plan Type: Coordinated Care Organization
The Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) document will help you choose a health plan. The SBC shows you how you and the plan
would share the cost for covered health care services. NOTE: Information about the cost of this plan (called the premium) will be provided
separately. This is only a summary. For more information about your coverage, or to get a copy of the complete terms of coverage, go
to https://www.oregon.gov/oha/HSD/OHP/Pages/Splash.aspx or call the Oregon Health Plan at 1-800-273-0557. For information for your CCO, please go
here: https://www.oregon.gov/oha/hsd/ohp/pages/coordinated-care-organizations.aspx. For general definitions of common terms, such as allowed amount,
balance billing, coinsurance, copayment, deductible, provider, or other underlined terms, see the Glossary. You can view the Glossary at
http://www.healthcare.gov/sbc-glossary or call 1-800-273-0557 to request a copy.
Important Questions Answers Why This Matters:
What is the overall
$0 See the Common Medical Events chart below for services this plan covers.
deductible?
Are there services covered Yes All services covered by this plan are provided with no deductible.
before you meet your
deductible? This plan covers some items and services even if you haven't yet met the deductible amount.
Are there other deductibles
No You don’t have to meet deductibles for specific services.
for specific services?
What is the out-of-pocket Not Applicable
There is no out-of-pocket limit for this plan.
limit for this plan?
Premiums and services this
What is not included in the plan doesn't cover are not
There is no out-of-pocket limit for this plan.
out-of-pocket limit? included in the out-of-pocket
limit.
This plan uses a provider network. You will pay less if you use a provider in the plan’s network.
Yes. See
You will pay the most if you use an out-of-network provider, and you might receive a bill from a
https://www.oregon.gov/oha/hs
Will you pay less if you use a provider for the difference between the provider’s charge and what your plan pays (balance
d/ohp/pages/find-providers.aspx
network provider? billing). Check with your provider before you get services. Be aware, your network provider
or call 1-800-273-0557 for a list
might use an out-of-network provider for some services (such as lab work). Check with your
of network providers.
provider before you get services.
Do you need a referral to see This plan will pay all of the costs to see a specialist for covered services but only if you have a
Yes.
a specialist? referral before you see the specialist.
Page 1 of 5
(HHS - OMB control number: 0938-1146/Expiration date: 05/31/2026)
All copayment and coinsurance costs shown in this chart are after your deductible has been met, if a deductible applies.
What You Will Pay
Limitations, Exceptions, & Other Important
Common Medical Event Services You May Need Network Provider Out-of-Network Provider
Information
(You will pay the least) (You will pay the most)
Primary care visit to treat an
No charge Not covered None
injury or illness
Preauthorization is required. If you don't get
If you visit a health care Specialist visit No charge Not covered preauthorization, the visit will not be covered
provider’s office or by the plan.
clinic You may have to pay for services that aren’t
Preventive care/screening/ preventive. Ask your provider if the services
No charge Not covered
immunization needed are preventive. Then check what your
plan will pay for.
Diagnostic test (x-ray, blood
No charge Not covered
work)
If you have a test None
Imaging (CT/PET scans,
No charge Not covered
MRIs)
If you need drugs to Generic drugs (Tier 1) No charge Not covered
treat your illness or
Preferred brand drugs (Tier
condition No charge Not covered
2) Covers up to a 30-day supply (retail
More information about
Non-preferred brand drugs subscription); 31-90 day supply (mail order
prescription drug No charge Not covered
(Tier 3) prescription).Prior authorization required for
coverage is available at
certain drugs. If not received, you will be
https://www.oregon.gov/o
responsible for the expense.
ha/hsd/ohp/pages/drug-
Specialty drugs (Tier 4) No charge Not covered
coverage.aspx
Preauthorization is required. If you don't get
Facility fee (e.g.,
If you have outpatient No charge Not covered preauthorization, the service will not be
ambulatory surgery center)
surgery covered by the plan.
Physician/surgeon fees No charge Not covered None
Emergency room care No charge No charge
If you need immediate
Emergency medical None
medical attention No charge No charge
transportation
*For more information about limitations and exceptions, see the plan or policy document at www.oregon.gov/oha/HSD/OHP/Pages/Handbooks.aspx. Page 2 of 5
What You Will Pay
Limitations, Exceptions, & Other Important
Common Medical Event Services You May Need Network Provider Out-of-Network Provider
Information
(You will pay the least) (You will pay the most)
Urgent care No charge Not covered
Facility fee (e.g., hospital
No charge Not covered None
If you have a hospital
room)
stay
Physician/surgeon fees No charge Not covered None
If you need mental
Outpatient services No charge Not covered
health, behavioral
None
health, or substance
Inpatient services No charge Not covered
abuse services
Office visits No charge Not covered
Childbirth/delivery Maternity care may include tests and services
No charge Not covered
If you are pregnant professional services described elsewhere in the SBC (i.e.,
Childbirth/delivery facility ultrasound).
No charge Not covered
services
Home health care No charge Not covered None
Rehabilitation services No charge Not covered None
If you need help
recovering or have Habilitation services No charge Not covered
other special health Skilled nursing care No charge Not covered None
needs
Durable medical equipment No charge Not covered None
Hospice services No charge Not covered None
Children’s eye exam No charge Not covered None
If your child needs
Children’s glasses No charge Not covered None
dental or eye care
Children’s dental check-up No charge Not covered None
Excluded Services & Other Covered Services:
Services Your Plan Generally Does NOT Cover (Check your policy or plan document for more information and a list of any other excluded services.)
* Cosmetic surgery * Non-emergency care when traveling
* Infertility treatment outside the U.S.
Other Covered Services (Limitations may apply to these services. This isn’t a complete list. Please see your plan document.)
* Acupuncture (if prescribed for * Dental care (Adult) * Private-duty nursing
rehabilitation purposes) * Hearing aids * Routine eye care (Adult)
* Bariatric surgery * Long-term care * Routine foot care
* For more information about limitations and exceptions, see the plan or policy document at www.oregon.gov/oha/HSD/OHP/Pages/Handbooks.aspx. Page 3 of 5
Other Covered Services (Limitations may apply to these services. This isn’t a complete list. Please see your plan document.)
* Chiropractic care * Weight loss programs
Your Rights to Continue Coverage: There are agencies that can help if you want to continue your coverage after it ends. The contact information for those
agencies is: U.S. Department of Labor, Employee Benefits Security Administration at 1-866-444-3272 or http://www.dol.gov/agencies/ebsa/about-ebsa/ask-a-
question/askebsa, Oregon Division of Financial Regulation at 1-888-877-4894 or www.dfr.oregon.gov, and Oregon Health Insurance Marketplace at
www.OregonHealthCare.gov or 1-855-268-3767. Other coverage options may be available to you, too, including buying individual insurance coverage through the
Health Insurance Marketplace. For more information about the Marketplace, visit www.HealthCare.gov or call 1-800-318- 2596.
Your Grievance and Appeals Rights: There are agencies that can help if you have a complaint against your plan for a denial of a claim. This complaint is called a
grievance or appeal. For more information about your rights, look at the explanation of benefits you will receive for that medical claim. Your plan documents also
provide complete information on how to submit a claim, appeal, or a grievance for any reason to your plan. For more information about your rights, this notice, or
assistance, contact: /www.oregon.gov/oha/hsd/ohp/pages/complaints-appeals.aspx.
Does this plan provide Minimum Essential Coverage? Yes.
Minimum Essential Coverage generally includes plans, health insurance available through the Marketplace or other individual market policies, Medicare, Medicaid,
CHIP, TRICARE, and certain other coverage. If you are eligible for certain types of Minimum Essential Coverage, you are not eligible for the premium tax credit.
Does this plan meet the Minimum Value Standards? Not Applicable
If your plan doesn’t meet the Minimum Value Standards, you may be eligible for a premium tax credit to help you pay for a plan through the Marketplace.
Language Access Services:
Spanish (Español): Para obtener asistencia en Español, llame al 833-743-9182.
Russian (русский): Если вам нужна помощь на русском языке, позвоните 833-687-1508.
Chinese (中文): 如果需要中文的帮助, 请拨打这个号码 833-705-2343.
Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt): Để được trợ giúp bằng tiếng Việt, vui lòng gọi 833-719-6822.
You can get this document in other languages, large print, braille or a format you prefer free of charge. Contact OHP Language Access Services at
languageaccess.info@odhsoha.oregon.gov or 1-844-882-7889. We accept all relay calls.
To see examples of how this plan might cover costs for a sample medical situation, see the next section.
PRA Disclosure Statement: According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, no persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control number. The valid
OMB control number for this information collection is 0938-1146. The time required to complete this information collection is estimated to average 0.02 hours per response, including the time to review
instructions, search existing data resources, gather the data needed, and complete and review the information collection. If you have comments concerning the accuracy of the time estimate(s) or suggestions for
improving this form, please write to: CMS, 7500 Security Boulevard, Attn: PRA Reports Clearance Officer, Mail Stop C4-26-05, Baltimore, Maryland 21244-1850.
* For more information about limitations and exceptions, see the plan or policy document at www.oregon.gov/oha/HSD/OHP/Pages/Handbooks.aspx. Page 4 of 5
About these Coverage Examples:
This is not a cost estimator. Treatments shown are just examples of how this plan might cover medical care. Your actual costs will be different
depending on the actual care you receive, the prices your providers charge, and many other factors. Focus on the cost-sharing amounts
(deductibles, copayments and coinsurance) and excluded services under the plan. Use this information to compare the portion of costs you might
pay under different health plans. Please note these coverage examples are based on self-only coverage.
Peg is Having a Baby Managing Joe’s Type 2 Diabetes Mia’s Simple Fracture
(9 months of in-network pre-natal care and a (a year of routine in-network care of a well- (in-network emergency room visit and follow up
hospital delivery) controlled condition) care)
◼ The plan’s overall deductible $0 ◼ The plan’s overall deductible $0 ◼ The plan’s overall deductible $0
◼ Specialist copayment $0 ◼ Specialist copayment $0 ◼ Specialist copayment $0
◼ Hospital (facility) coinsurance 0% ◼ Hospital (facility) coinsurance 0% ◼ Hospital (facility) coinsurance 0%
◼ Other coinsurance 0% ◼ Other coinsurance 0% ◼ Other coinsurance 0%
This EXAMPLE event includes services like: This EXAMPLE event includes services like: This EXAMPLE event includes services like:
Specialist office visits (prenatal care) Primary care physician office visits (including Emergency room care (including medical
Childbirth/Delivery Professional Services disease education) supplies)
Childbirth/Delivery Facility Services Diagnostic tests (blood work) Diagnostic test (x-ray)
Diagnostic tests (ultrasounds and blood work) Prescription drugs Durable medical equipment (crutches)
Specialist visit (anesthesia) Durable medical equipment (glucose meter) Rehabilitation services (physical therapy)
Total Example Cost $0 Total Example Cost $0 Total Example Cost $0
In this example, Peg would pay: In this example, Joe would pay: In this example, Mia would pay:
Cost Sharing Cost Sharing Cost Sharing
Deductibles $00 Deductibles* $0 Deductibles* $0
Copayments $00 Copayments $0 Copayments $0
Coinsurance $0 Coinsurance $0 Coinsurance $0
What isn’t covered What isn’t covered What isn’t covered
Limits or exclusions $0 Limits or exclusions $0 Limits or exclusions $0
The total Peg would pay is $0 The total Joe would pay is $0 The total Mia would pay is $0
The plan would be responsible for the other costs of these EXAMPLE covered services.
Page 5 of 5